Manual storage scaling in Everest (#227)
percona/everest-doc: docs/use/manual_storage_scaling.md

# Manual storage scaling

You can increase the storage capacity of your **S3-compatible** storage through manual storage scaling. This feature enables you to adapt to rising data demands, providing more flexibility in managing growing database workloads while ensuring system stability and data security.

## Storage management in Percona Everest

> In the Kubernetes environment used by Percona Everest, storage is managed using **Persistent Volumes (PVs)** and **Persistent Volume Claims (PVCs)**. Manual scaling involves adjusting the underlying PV resources to meet the demands specified in the PVC.

Reviewer: I don't think this line is completely correct in this context:

```
Manual scaling involves adjusting the underlying PV resources to meet the demands specified in the PVC.
```

```suggestion
In Kubernetes environments running Percona Everest, storage is managed using *Persistent Volumes (PVs)* and *Persistent Volume Claims (PVCs)*. Everest automates storage provisioning through StorageClasses.

For storage scaling, Everest supports volume expansion, enabling users to increase storage size—provided the associated StorageClass allows it.
```

# Manual storage scaling

> You can increase the storage capacity of your **S3-compatible** storage through manual storage scaling. This feature enables you to adapt to rising data demands, providing more flexibility in managing growing database workloads while ensuring system stability and data security.

Reviewer: @rasika-chivate Unresolving because I still see the mentions of S3

> You can increase the storage capacity of your **S3-compatible** storage through manual storage scaling. This feature enables you to adapt to rising data demands, providing more flexibility in managing growing database workloads while ensuring system stability and data security.

Reviewer: @rasika-chivate I see you've requested for another review, but this comment is not yet addressed

## Addressing the fixed Disk size constraint

> While you can adjust CPU and memory allocations for your databases, the disk size is fixed after the initial database provisioning. This enhancement allows you to manage expanding database workloads effectively while maintaining system stability and data security.

Author: Will change it.

In the Kubernetes environment used by Percona Everest, storage is managed using **Persistent Volumes (PVs)** and **Persistent Volume Claims (PVCs)**. Manual scaling involves adjusting the underlying PV resources to meet the demands specified in the PVC.

For detailed information on PVs and PVCs, refer to the official [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/){:target="_blank"}.

## Prerequisites

- When scaling storage manually for a database managed by Percona Everest, ensure that the `StorageClass` used by the database's **PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC)** supports **volume expansion**.

    !!! note
        In Kubernetes, manual disk scaling only works if the associated `StorageClass` has the following setting:

        ```sh
        allowVolumeExpansion: true
        ```

    To verify if your storage class allows for volume expansion, execute the following command:

    ```sh

>     kubectl get storageclass
>     kubectl describe storageclass <your-storage-class>
>     ```
> 
>     ??? example "Expected output"
>         ```
>             apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
>         kind: StorageClass
>         metadata:
>             name: expandable-storage
>             provisioner: kubernetes.io/aws-ebs
>             allowVolumeExpansion: true
>         ```

Reviewer 2: Maybe the `kubectl get storageclass` command is enough, it gives the following output
```suggestion
    kubectl get storageclass
    ```

    ??? example "Expected output"
        ```
NAME                   PROVISIONER             RECLAIMPOLICY   VOLUMEBINDINGMODE      ALLOWVOLUMEEXPANSION   AGE
expandable-storage     kubernetes.io/aws-ebs   Delete          WaitForFirstConsumer   true                   42m

        ```
```

Reviewer: @rasika-chivate Unresolving this comment since I don't think the above suggestion was applied

- When scaling storage in Percona Everest, always verify that [resource quotas](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/policy/resource-quotas/#storage-resource-quota){:target="_blank"} allow the requested storage capacity. For more information, see the [known limitations](../reference/known_limitations.md#manual-storage-scaling) section.

## Editing storage capacity

To modify storage capacity, follow these steps:
{.power-number}

1. From the Percona Everest homepage, go to the **Overview** page for your database.

2. In the Resources panel, click **Edit**. The **Edit Topology** pop-up will be displayed.

3. Under **Resource size per node**, find the **DISK** field. 

4. Update the disk value (in Gi) to the new desired capacity.

5. Click **Save**.

!!! note

>     Disk size can only be increased. Decreasing the disk is not supported to protect data integrity.

Reviewer 2: We should also mention that it's an irreversible action, like we warn in the UI:
![Screenshot from 2025-03-26 23-16-20](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/06bd7689-8300-4571-b1ee-c911bbc11bdc)

And we should let users know that if the scaling fails for some reason the DB will remain in the **Resizing Volumes** state and the operation will be continuously retried.

Reviewer 2: We can also mention that users should refer to their CSI driver documentation for any possible limitations with volume resizing.

# Manual storage scaling

You can increase the storage capacity of your **S3-compatible** storage through manual storage scaling. This feature enables you to adapt to rising data demands, providing more flexibility in managing growing database workloads while ensuring system stability and data security.

## Fixed disk size constraint

> While you can adjust CPU and memory allocations for your databases, the disk size is fixed after the initial database provisioning. This enhancement allows you to manage expanding database workloads effectively while maintaining system stability and data security.

Reviewer: Do we actually need to mention any of this?

```
While you can adjust CPU and memory allocations for your databases, the disk size is fixed after the initial database provisioning.
```
